date posted: 2025-05-20 12:50
tags: [[PointersOnC]]
status: #complete-thought
# 01.023 Questions chap 1

- C is a free-form language, which means that there are no rules regarding how programs must look.Yet the sample program followed specific spacing rules. Why do you think this is?
to make it readable for not only the writer later on but for others 

- What is the advantage of putting declarations, such as function prototypes, in header files and then using `#include` to bring the declarations into the source files where they are needed?
uses specific files for declarations 

- What is the advantage of using `#define` to give names to literal constants?
the preprocessor looks at

- What format string would you use with `printf` in order to print a decimal integer, a string, and a floating-point value, in that order? Separate the values from one another with a space, and end the output with a newline character.

- Write the `scanf` statement needed to read two integers, called `quantity` and `price`, followed by a string, which should be stored in a character array called `department`.

- There are no checks made on the validity of an array subscript in C. Why do you think this obvious safety measure was omitted from the language?

- The rearrange program described in the chapter contains the statement `strncpy( output + output_col, input + columns[col], nchars );` The `strncpy` function takes only two arguments, so the number of characters it copies is determined by the string specified by the second argument. What would be the effect of replacing the `strncpy` function call with a call to `strcpy` in this program?

- The rearrange program contains the statement `while( gets( input ) != NULL ) {` What might go wrong with this code?